[#3688] Add documentation (#4028)
open-formulieren/open-forms: docs/configuration/registration/objects.rst

  related to the record in the Objects API.
* An instance of the `Objects API`_ (v2.2+) with:

.. warning:: For forms with payment requirements, a PATCH request is made to the
   Objects API to update the payment status. This requires a version of the Objects API
   newer than 2.1.1, which is unreleased at the time of writing.
    - (API) access to the above Objecttypes API
    - an API token to access the Objects API from Open Forms
    - write permissions for the relevant Objecttypes - Open Forms creates and updates
      records.

Configuration
=============
* An instance of the Catalogi API (e.g. via Open Zaak) with:

    - API credentials (client ID + secret) to read the available document types (
      informatieobjecttypen)
    - API resource URLs of the document type to use for the PDF summary of submitted
      form data
    - API resource URLs of the document type to use for the CSV of submitted form data
      (optional)
    - API resource URLs of the document type to use for the user uploaded attachments
      (optional, works as fallback). The document type can also be selected on each
      individual ``file`` component

> Below is an example of the contents in the ``record.data`` attribute in the

Reviewer: Decided to remove this, there is no added benefit for functional admins since they're not typically involved with form-configuration, and it's way too technical for form designers.

The Productaanvraag objecttype is linked above, that should be sufficient :)

Author: Yes wasn't sure what to do with this

Open Forms can be configured to create an object (of type ``ProductAanvraag``) to
register form submissions.

Since Open Forms ``2.6.0``, a new way of configuring the form registration is available.
Hereafter, we will refer to this new configuration as the *Variables mapping (v2)* configuration.

> The old configuration will be refered as the *Legacy (v1)* configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The old configuration will be referred to as the *Legacy (v1)* configuration.
```

What does the Open Forms administator need?
===========================================

* API resource URL of object type(s) to use for registration. If using the *Variables mapping (v2)*

>   configuration, access to the Objecttypes API where the object type(s) leave is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  configuration, access to the Objecttypes API where the object type(s) live(s) is required.
```

* Write access to the Documenten API, some attachments/files are created there and then
  related to the record in the Objects API.

.. warning::

>    When using the *Legacy (v1)* configuration, a PATCH request is made to the
>    Objects API to update the payment status (for forms with a payment requirement).
>    This requires a version of the Objects API newer than 2.1.1. When using the
>    *Variables mapping (v2)* configuration, a PUT request is made instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   When a form requires payment and Open Forms is configured *not* to wait for payment before registering, then when the payment is received:
- With the *Legacy (v1)* configuration, a PATCH request is made to the
   Objects API to update the payment status. This requires a version of the Objects API newer than 2.1.1.
- With the *Variables mapping (v2)* configuration, a PUT request is made instead.
```

Configuration
=============

To configure the Objects API follow these steps:

> #. In Open Forms, navigate to: **Configuration** > **Services**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. In the Open Forms admin, navigate to: **Configuration** > **Services**
```
Maybe it's obvious :stuck_out_tongue:

#. Create a service for the Objects API (ORC) where the form data will be registered.

   a. Click **Service toevoegen**.
   b. Fill out the form:

      * **Label**: *Fill in a human readable label*, for example: ``My Objects API``
      * **Type**: Select the type: ``ORC``
      * **API root url**: The root of this API, *for example* ``https://example.com/objecten/api/v2/``

      * **Authorization type**: Select the option: ``API Key``
      * **Header key**: Fill in ``Authorization``

>       * **Header value**: Fill in ``Token <tokenValue>`` where ``<tokenValue>`` is replaced by the token provided by the backend service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * **Header value**: Fill in ``Token <tokenValue>`` where ``<tokenValue>`` is replaced with a token that can be obtained through the Objects API admin interface
```
Maybe?

      * **OAS**: URL that points to the OAS, same URL as used for **API root url** with ``/schema/openapi.yaml`` added to it
        *for example:* ``https://example.com/objecten/api/v1/schema/openapi.yaml``

      * **NLX**: Support for NLX can be selected here if enabled in the installation
      * **User ID**: Audit trail user ID, usually same as the Client ID
      * **User representation**: *For example:* ``Open Forms``

   c. Click **Opslaan** and repeat to create configuration for the other component.

#. If using the *Variables mapping (v2)* configuration, create a service for the Objecttypes API (ORC).

   a. Click **Service toevoegen**.
   b. Fill out the form:

      * **Label**: *Fill in a human readable label*, for example: ``My Objecttypes API``
      * **Type**: Select the type: ``ORC``
      * **API root url**: The root of this API, *for example* ``https://example.com/objecttypen/api/v2/``

      * **Authorization type**: Select the option: ``API Key``
      * **Header key**: Fill in ``Authorization``

>       * **Header value**: Fill in ``Token <tokenValue>`` where ``<tokenValue>`` is replaced by the token provided by the backend service

Reviewer 2: same comment as above

   * **Organisatie RSIN**: Fill the RSIN to be referred to in the created objects. *For example:* ``123456789``

   If using the *Legacy (v1)* configuration, the default JSON templates can be configured as well:

   * **JSON content template**: This is a template for the JSON that will be sent to the Object API nested in the
     ``record.data`` field.
   * **Payment status update JSON template**: This is a template for the JSON that will be sent with a PATCH request to
     the Object API to update the payment status of a submission. This JSON will be nested in the ``record.data.payment`` field.

#. Click **Opslaan**

The Objects API configuration is now complete and can be selected as registration backend in the form builder.
When doing so, the corresponding objecttype and objecttype version will have to be configured.

.. versionchanged:: 2.6.0

  The objecttype URL and version should be configured at the form level, and can't be configured globally.

Using the *Legacy (v1)* configuration
=====================================

When using a the legacy configuration, the JSON template (either the global default configured above or

> the one specified at the form level) will be rendered a fixed input (e.g. the submission variables, the payment status).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the one specified at the form level) will be rendered as a fixed input (e.g. the submission variables, the payment status).
```
?

           }
         }

Using the *Variables mapping (v2)* configuration
================================================

> When using the variables mapping configuration, each variable can be mapped to a specific location in the object type

Reviewer 2: I think above you went for `objecttype` without space, I am not sure which one is the preferred version, but we should maybe stick to 1 of the two

Author: Yeah I'm not sure, the name of the API is _Objecttypes API_, but I find it better to refer to _an object type_ with a space

Reviewer: Spelling-wise, a space is needed, but I've chosen to stick to the official naming of the product (without space).

JSON Schema. This configuration takes place in the **Variables** tab. To demonstrate how variables can be configured,
we will assume the following JSON Schema defines the object type being used:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "payment_completed": {"type": "boolean"},
      "data": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "firstName": {"type": "string"},
          "age": {"type": "integer"}
        }
      }
    }
  }

.. note::

  The JSON Schema is parsed internally by Open Forms. For best results, your schema should
  follow these guidelines:

  - If possible, define a ``"$schema"`` URI pointing to the specification you are using. If not specified,
    Open Forms will assume the latest specification (*2020-12*) applies, which might not be compatible.

>   - Do not omit the ``"type"`` key (in our case, ``"object"``). Only defining ``"properties"`` is not enough,

Reviewer 2: the text in brackets is not clear to me :thinking:

    as having ``"type"`` unspecified means any type of data can be set.
  - Using references is supported, but shouldn't point to an external entity. Be sure to use the ``$ref``
    keyword to point to a specific reference.

We will also assume the form has one step with two components defined:

- A text field with a key of ``userName``.
- A number field with a key of ``userAge``.

The **Variables** tab should look like the following:

.. image:: _assets/variables_tab.png

Mapping variables
-----------------

Each variable needs to be mapped to a target individually. To do so, click the edit icon in the
registration column. A modal should open with the following content:

.. image:: _assets/objects_api_modal.png

For each variable, only the compatible JSON Schema targets (in our case, *data > firstName*) will be presented.
Once selected, click **Save** and do the same for the ``userAge`` variable.

> To be able to map register "meta" information about the submission (such as the payment completion),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to map "meta" information about the submission (such as the payment completion),
```

the Objects API registration provides *registration variables*. These are only available during registration,

> and behaves the same way other variables do. To configure a mapping for the ``"payment_completed"`` JSON Schema target,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but behave similarly to other variables. To configure a mapping for the ``"payment_completed"`` JSON Schema target,
```

go to the **Registration** tab (next to **Static**) and configure the *Payment completed* variable by mapping it to
``payment_completed`` (this should be the only option available).

Registration result
-------------------

With the mapping configuration provided above, the payload sent to the Objects API will look like the following:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "type": "https://example.com/objecttypen/api/v2/objecttypes/7e6a98c3-bf02-41a6-8835-5367f6099780",
    "record": {
      "typeVersion": 1,
      "data": {
        "payment_completed": true,
        "data": {
          "firstName": "Filled first name",
          "age": 20
        }
      },
      "startAt": "2024-01-01"
    }
  }

Mapping a variable to the ``"geometry"`` component
--------------------------------------------------

> As shown in the image above, it is possible to map a specific variable (usually a Map component)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As shown in the image above, it is possible to map a specific variable (usually corresponding to a Map component)
```
